# COVID

(ii) Our proposed approach is what we call case-tracking Monte Carlo simulation: Here we allow CFD not only to be different for progressively increasing time intervals from the onset to the day of investigation (ti), as above, but we also allow it to change on a case-by-case basis by allowing a Gaussian distribution for CFD around a mean of mCFD with a standard deviation of sdCFD. Therefore, this method involves 3 fitting parameters: CFR, mCFD and sdCFD. Take the number of cases on a day t, that is c(t). Since this date is different for different countries, we plot the results backwards from May 1, 2020 being tmaz=0. Let us assume the we are examining the data on day ti. The simulation is described below:
Let t = tmin, the first day (a negative number) when the cumulative number of cases ≥ 5.
Step1: If c(t)=0 then go to Step 2.
Otherwise (that is c(t)>0) decrease c(t) by 1, and generate a random number r over the closed 0-1 interval.
If r > CFR (the case will not lead to fatality) go to Step 1.
Otherwise (that is r ≤ CFR, that is the case will lead fatality) select a random number (time, tr) from a Gaussian distribution centred around mCFD with standard deviation of sdCFD. Increase f(t+tr) by 1 (except if if t+tr > ti because that event would be in the future relative to the day of examination ti). Go to Step 1.
Step 2: Increase t by 1. If t > ti (0) (i.e. the examination day is also processed) then stop.
Otherwise (that is t ≤ ti) go to Step 1.
Briefly, every case in every day (t) of the investigated interval (tmin-ti) is moved to the daily deaths vs time data f(t+tr) with the probability of CFR (otherwise considered as survivor) to a new day (t+tr, where tr is selected randomly from a distribution around mCFD). The iteration is started with guessed CFR, mCFD and sdCFD values and it goes through the complete dataset of the examined interval (tmin-ti). The sum of square of the differences (chi2) between the so-generated f(t) and the experimental d(t) is noted for a given set of the 3 fitting parameters. Then a new set of CFR, mCFD and sdCFD is generated randomly and the corresponding chi2 is noted again, and the parameters yielding smaller sum of squerered error are recorded. This iteration is done 300 times for any given ti and the parameter set yielding the smallest chi2 are recorded along with the latest values of f(t) that is f(ti). As the investigation day ti runs from tmin to tmax f(t) is different, including its last value f(tj) for different ti days. Let us call the last values of the f(t) sets fl(t). Note that for any tmin-ti interval one could report either the best fitting f(t) or fl(t) over that interval. We chose the second option because not any fl(t) is affected by any data reported after t, and this fl(t) value is the one would get as the latest value by performing the above simulation at time t. This is a step-wise fit to obtain simulated number of deaths for the day of investigation as opposed to simulate all days of the interval.
